He went back to the little table and examined the burnt bits of paper. 'I
need a ladies' hat box!' he said softly.
Before Dr Constantine was able to ask why, Poirot was in the corridor,
calling for the conductor. The conductor soon came in with a hat box borrowed
from one of the lady passengers.
'There are so many clues in this room,' Poirot explained to the doctor, who
was looking very confused. 'The watch, the pipe cleaner, the handkerchief. But
how can we be sure that they are not false clues, left here to confuse us? I am
only sure of two clues - the match and the burnt paper. The murderer didn't want
us to read the words on that paper. Let us see.'
From the hat box, Poirot took one of the pieces of shaped wire netting over
which a hat would normally sit. He flattened it, then carefully placed the burnt
pieces of paper on top and covered them with another piece of wire netting. He
lit a match and held the wire over the flame. The doctor watched with interest as,
slowly, some words appeared - words of fire. '-member little Daisy Armstrong.'
'Ah!' cried Poirot. 'So Ratchett was not the dead man's real name. We now
know his name, and why he left America.'
'We do?' asked the doctor.
'Yes. We must go and tell M. Bouc.'
The two men found M. Bouc finishing lunch in his compartment. 'After
lunch, we will empty the restaurant carriage and use it for your interviews,' M.
Bouc said. 'I have ordered some food for you here.'
The doctor and the detective ate quickly. M. Bouc waited until their coffee
had been served, then asked, 'Well?'
'I know the real name of the murdered man,' said Poirot. 'He was Cassetti.
Do you remember the Armstrong case?'
'Yes, I think I do,' answered M. Bouc. 'A terrible business - although I
cannot remember the details.'
'Colonel Armstrong was an Englishman, married to the daughter of
America's most famous actress, Linda Arden. They were living in America when
their three-year-old daughter was kidnapped. After messages from the
kidnappers, the parents paid them more than two hundred thousand dollars for
her return. But instead, the child's dead body was discovered. Mrs Armstrong
was carrying another baby at the time, and the shock of her daughter's murder
made her give birth too soon. She and the baby both died. The heartbroken
husband then shot himself.'
'Yes, I remember now,' M. Bouc said softly. 'And there was another death
too, wasn't there?'
'A French or Swiss girl who worked for the Armstrongs. The police
believed that she had helped the kidnappers, although she strongly denied this.
She threw herself out of a window. Later, it was proved that she was completely
innocent.'
'Terrible!' said the doctor.
'About six months after these events, the police caught Cassetti. He was
the leader of a team of gangsters who had kidnapped and killed people in a
similar way before. There was no doubt that he was guilty of the Armstrong
kidnap too. But Cassetti was very rich, and he used his money to escape
punishment for his crimes. After the court case, he disappeared. And now we
know where he went. He changed his name to Ratchett and began travelling
abroad.'
'What an animal!' cried M. Bouc. 'He got what he deserved.'
'I agree,' said M. Poirot. 'But was the murderer another gangster, or
someone connected to Daisy Armstrong?'
'Are there any members of the Armstrong family living?'
'I don't know,' replied the detective. 'I seem to remember that Mrs
Armstrong had a younger sister.'
There was a knock at the door. 'The restaurant carriage is ready for you,
Monsieur,' said the waiter to M. Bouc.
The three men walked down the corridor to begin the interviews.
CHAPTER THREE
A Red Dressing Gown and a Metal Button
In the restaurant carriage, everything was ready - a pile of passports and
tickets, a plan of the carriage with the names of the passengers marked on it, and
writing paper, a pen and ink.
'Excellent,' said Poirot. 'Our first interview will be with the conductor. You
probably know something about his character, M. Bouc. Should we believe his
evidence?'
'Definitely,' replied M. Bouc. 'Pierre Michel has worked for the company
for fifteen years. A Frenchman - very honest.' Michel entered the carriage. He
seemed less upset than he had been earlier, but he was still very nervous.
'Now, Michel,' said M. Poirot gently, 'we have to ask you a few things
about last night. M. Ratchett went to bed - when?'
'Soon after dinner, Monsieur - before we left Belgrade.'
'Did you see anyone go into his compartment afterwards?'
'His manservant, Monsieur, and his secretary. No one else.'
'And was that the last time you saw or heard from him?'
'No, Monsieur. He rang his bell at about twenty to one. I knocked, but he
called out, 'Ce n'est rieti. Je me suis trompe.'
'And where were you at a quarter past one?'
'Most of the time I was at my seat at the end of the corridor. Soon after one
- I don't know when exactly - I went to the next carriage to talk to a colleague
about the snow. Then Mrs Hubbard rang, and I spoke to her for a few minutes.
Then I brought you some water, Monsieur.'
'And later?'
'At about two o'clock M. MacQueen asked me to make his bed. The
English Colonel from number 15 was there with him. When they had gone to
bed, I sat at my seat until morning.'
'Did you sleep?'
'I don't think so, Monsieur.'
'Did you see any of the passengers in the corridor?'
The conductor thought for a moment. 'One of the ladies went to the toilet.'
'Which one?'
'I don't know, but she was wearing a red dressing gown. It had a Chinese-
style picture on the back.'
'And after that?'
'You yourself opened the door and looked out for a second.'
'Good,' said Poirot. 'I wondered if you would remember that. Now, if the
murderer came onto the train last night -'
'There were no strangers on the train last night, Monsieur. The door to the
next carriage was bolted on the inside. I opened the side door when we stopped
at Vincovci at twenty past twelve, but I was standing there all the time. No one
came through it.'
'What about the side door beyond the restaurant carriage?'
'That is always bolted on the inside at night.'
'It isn't bolted now.'
The man looked surprised for a moment. 'Perhaps one of the passengers
opened it to look at the snow,' he said finally. 'Monsieur, you do not blame me?'
Poirot smiled at him kindly. 'Of course not, my friend. Ah! I have one
other thing to ask you. Another bell rang just after you knocked on M. Ratchett's
door. Whose was it?'
'Princess Dragomiroff's, Monsieur. She wanted her maid.'
'You called the maid?'
'Yes, Monsieur.'
'That is all. Thank you for your help.'
The conductor left the restaurant carriage and Poirot called Mr MacQueen
for another interview.
When MacQueen learnt that his employer had been the criminal Cassetti,
he was very angry. 'How terrible that I helped an evil man like that!' he cried.
'You seem to feel very strongly about this, M. MacQueen.'
'Yes, I do. My father was on the legal team in the Armstrong case. He
knew that Cassetti was guilty, but things went wrong in court and it couldn't be
proved. Well, I'm glad that he's dead - although I didn't kill him myself, you
understand.'
'Of course, of course. Now, I must check the movements of everyone on
the train. What did you do last night after dinner?'
'Well, I talked to some of the other passengers. At about ten o'clock, I went
into Mr Ratchett's compartment and he
asked me to write some letters for him. Then I got into a long conversation
with Colonel Arbuthnot.'
'Do you know what time you went to bed?'
'About two o'clock, I think.'
'Did you leave the train at any time?'
'Arbuthnot and I got out at - what was the name of the place? - Vincovci.
But it was bitterly cold, so we soon came back in.'
'By which door did you leave the train?'
'By the one next to the restaurant carriage.'
'Do you remember if it was bolted?'
MacQueen stopped to think. 'Yes, I believe it was.'
'And did you bolt it again when you got back on the train?'
'I got on last, and no, I don't think 1 bolted it.'
'When you were with Colonel Arbuthnot,' continued the detective, 'the
door of your compartment was open, I think. Please tell me who passed along
the corridor after the train left Vincovci.'
'The conductor - and a woman too, going towards the restaurant carriage.'
'Which woman?'
'I don't know. I just remember seeing a thin red dressing gown. She was
probably going to the toilet.'
'Did you see her return?'
'Well, no, I don't remember seeing her.'
'One more question. Do you smoke a pipe?'
'No, sir, I don't,' replied MacQueen.
'I think that is all at present. Thank you for your time. I would now like to
speak to M. Ratchett's manservant.'
The American left and the thin, pale Englishman arrived. The detective
picked up his passport.
'You are the manservant of M. Ratchett - Edward Henry Masterman, age
thirty-nine, a British citizen?'
'Yes, sir.'
'You have heard that your employer has been murdered?'